Define new project management workflow (#1584)
open-telemetry/community: project-management.md

> # Project Management

Reviewer: Is this only for spec changes?

Some specification changes are small enough in scope such that they can be resolved with a single PR or an OTEP written by a single person. However, this is rarely the case for large, meaningful changes. Most spec work ends up being organized into projects.

At minimum, projects require the following resources to be successful:

* A group of designers and subject matter experts need to dedicate a significant amount of their work time to the project. These participants are needed to design the spec, write a set of OTEPs, and create multiple prototypes. This group needs to meet with each other (and  with TC members) on a regular basis to develop a successful set of proposals.
* A portion of the TC needs to be aware of and participate in the development of the project, to review the proposals and help guide the participants through the specification process.
* Spec approvers and the broader community need to be aware of progress being made on the project, so they can be prepared to participate when proposals are ready for review.

## Project Document

> Every project must have a high level **Project Document**, which describes the project. This document will be used as the initial proposal for the project. Once a project is approved, the document should be frequently edited and kept up to date as the project progresses. 

Reviewer: Updated by whom? How frequent? What happens when it's not done?

The project lifecycle is as follows:

* A **Project Proposal** pull request is created, as described above.
* If a project is approved, the pull request is merged. The project is then added to the list of **Potential Projects**. This list is roughly ordered based on priority.
* Potential projects are moved to the list of **Scheduled Projects** once they have a planned start date. Having a planned start date lets potential contributors know when they need to make themselves available, and get prepared to begin their work. Subject matter experts and participants who plan to do a lot of work – such as building prototypes – benefit greatly from having a start date, as they can plan for their participantion with their employers and coworkers.
* Once a project is begun, it is moved to the list of **Current Projects**. Projects are only started when the necessary resources are available to move them quickly to completion. This means that the necessary subject matter experts have been identified, and at least two TC members are committed to review and guide the project through the specification process.

> * Once work is complete, and the working group is no longer meeting, the project document is moved to the [completed projects](projects/completed-projects/) folder.

Reviewer: So, a project is a working group?

Author: A project is a working group, a goal, and a deadline. I can define this further.

# Project Management

> The OpenTelemetry has limited bandwith for managing changes which expand the scope of OpenTelemetry, or impact many SIGs within OpenTelemetry. There are three common scenarios which have this kind of impact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry community has limited bandwidth for managing changes which expand the scope of OpenTelemetry, or impact many SIGs within OpenTelemetry. There are three common scenarios which have this kind of impact.
```

* Non-trivial changes to the OpenTelemetry specification.
* A new SIG being formed.

> * An existing SIG taking on new work which will affect the OpenTelemetry as a whole, and will need review from the broader community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* An existing SIG taking on new work which will affect OpenTelemetry as a whole, and will need review from the broader community.
```
or
```suggestion
* An existing SIG taking on new work which will affect the OpenTelemetry project as a whole, and will need review from the broader community.
```

Any changes which fall into one of the above categories must first create a project proposal and gain approval from the GC and TC before work begins.

## Project Proposal

At minimum, projects require the following resources to be successful:

* A clearly defined set of goals and deliverables.

> * Deadlines for when the deliverables will be ready for review by the broader community.

Author: Deadlines do sound strict, but I think it will help the working groups focus and move towards delivering on their goals faster. Some things I have noticed when organizing prior projects:

* Having clear deadlines makes it easier for project members to receive approval to work on the project. When the work is open-ended, it is harder to get an approval from managers to use work time. This leads to engineers getting overburdened or pulled off the project. This has been particularly true for subject matter experts, who are participating in a particular project but are not planning on being a long term contributor to OpenTelemetry.
* Without a deadline, projects can become prone to "architectural astronauting," where they endlessly debate alternatives. Deadlines provide project leaders with a basis for ending debate and getting the group to produce a public proposal.
* Deadlines allow participants in the public review process to manage their calendars. Proper review can actually take a lot of time on the part of reviewers. Without deadlines, the public review period comes as a surprise, which leads to drawn out process due to critical participants being unavailable and unable to coordinate a response. This can be very frustrating to the project, as they are blocked on continuing their work until TC members and other approvers complete their review.

Obviously, a project can misjudge the amount of time they need, and can run into unexpected problems. In those cases, there is nothing wrong with updating the deadlines to something more realistic. But I think it is important that projects always maintain a clear expectation for when they will be delivering work for public review.

> * Deadlines for when the deliverables will be ready for review by the broader community.

Reviewer 4: Sounds good, thanks.

> * Deadlines for when the deliverables will be ready for review by the broader community.

Reviewer 3: Should these be part of the initial proposal or can these be laid out once the group has formed and work is starting?

> * A group of designers and subject matter experts need to dedicate a significant amount of their work time to the project. These participants are needed to design the spec, write a set of OTEPs, and create multiple prototypes. This group needs to meet with each other (and  with TC members) on a regular basis to develop a successful set of proposals.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A group of designers and subject matter experts need to dedicate a significant amount of their work time to the project. These participants are needed to design the spec, write a set of OTEPs, and create multiple prototypes. This group needs to meet with each other (and with their sponsors, see next point) on a regular basis to develop a successful set of proposals.
```

> * Two TC members, or community members delegated by the TC, to sponsor the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Two TC/GC members, or community members delegated by them, to sponsor the project.
```

To propose a project, please create a **project document** using the [project template](project-template.md) as a guide. This document will be used as the initial proposal for the project.

You can then submit the proposal by placing the project document in the [projects](projects/) folder and making a pull request against the community repo. A project is officially approved by merging the pull request.

As the project progresses, the project document should be kept up to date, and the community [README](README.md) should be updated to include any new project meeting information.

## Project Lifecycle

> All projects progess through a lifecycle. Projects are tracked on the [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/projects/29), which the community can use to get a high-level view of the OpenTelemetry roadmap.

Reviewer 3: For this we would still need to create a ~dummy~ tracking issue in parallel to the PR adding the .md file, right?

Author: No, you don't need a tracking issue, you can just have a task directly in the project board.
